---
layout: post
title: "Travel"
description: "Ideal escape from city"
category: null
tags: 
  - India
  - Miscellaneous
published: true
---

Living in Bangalore for over 10 years now, I've had a chance to explore the surroundings quite a bit. New wave of convenient online services make it extremely easy to plan such excursions to minute detail. For example, take  <a href="http://www.yatra.com/flight-schedule/ " target="_blank"> Flight Schedule </a> , it gives convenient packages to tours for many tourist locations at reasonable prices.  <a href="http://www.yatra.com/international-flights/bangalore-to-singapore-flights" target="_blank">Bangalore to Singapore Flights</a>,  <a href="http://www.yatra.com/international-flights/bangalore-to-dubai-flights" target="_blank">Bangalore to Dubai Flights</a>, etc. It's far easier to plan using such websites and stay within one's chose budget and things to do.

In this post I am writing about my trip to Chikmagalur where I booked hotel using online services

# Planning
First thing is to decide upon what kind of vacation one is looking for. These may vary across relaxation, summer vacations, adventure seeking or heritage trips. The kinds of activity will help one decide on the destination. These days international destinations are not far from reach of regular budgets and offer a good experience over domestice destinations. For my recent vacation, I was looking for relaxation and picked a hill-station with trekking and water-falls as the major tourist attractions. 

# Booking
This is where keeping the budget in mind is important. Don't book places outside your budget. There are good offers online which make quality places affordable, and investing a little bit of time in comparing available options will help in finding ideal place to stay and mode of travel.

Dates are also important. If you are not constrained by long-weekends, then flexibility in chosing your dates will help getting better prices for places to stay and lower travel costs. This is not a luxury available to everyone, but when you are able to choose dates, make sure you are getting good prices for those combinations. It takes more time to work out better prices, but it's worth the effort. Again online services make it really easy to compare and get a wide variety of options at your fingertips. 

# Actual Trip
If your bookings are solid, then the trip will surely go by smoothly. On the actual trip, forget about the chores at work and home and explore. 

Travel expands mind. Soak in every second of your travel experience, you will cherish it for a long time to come.

# Memories
Finally after coming back home you are left with the memories of your travel. Make sure you share these cherished moments with family and friends, and also publish your experiences. Reviewing the places you chose will help other travelers to make their travel decisions. Share and spread the happiness.


You may share your travel planning tips in comments.

Best, Umang
 
 
