---
published: true 
layout: post
description: "Drive, Design and Connect."
category: null
tags: 
  - Technology
  - India
---

Automotive industry is in a big transition stage. The number of technologies going into an automobile are exploding, and its getting really hard to see where such an explosion of technology will lead the Automotive industy.

What makes this space interesting is that a multitude of innovative products are entering the market in near future, which give a glimpse of what's in store for later. India's largest commercial vehicle manufacturer Tata Motors is stepping it up yet again in consumer market again with new products. Some of them are showcased in their recent campaign [Made of Great]

In this post, I will be exploring how automotive industry attempts to transform the lives yet again by connecting us in significantly better ways. New designs and technology are at the core of this transformation. 

There are three core aspects

1. **Drive** - Transportation - Quality of Experience and how it improves over time
2. **Design** - What can design contribute to this space?
3. **Connect** - How technology connects it all together to provide a new transportation paradigm


Well wait a minute. I am not an automotive expert. I am neither a designer, or have any idea about Automotive technology either. I just wrote a bunch of large, good sounding words together and this doesn't give this article any authority what so ever. So instead of pretending to be an expert, I will merely present my hopes and expectations from transportation industry. [Tata Motors], Tesla, Google, Uber and Faraday have promised a future which will be unlike anything we know about.

Another aspect which impacts me is how automobiles have the power to change a city. Here's what should make dramatic difference in how new generation of automotive technologies could unleash real potential of a city like Bangalore.

1. **Drive** - Safety is of utmost importance and fundamental to an automobile's existence. I don't want to hurt anyone, and neither I want anyone to be able to hurt me while driving. This is an extremely difficult universal problem, on which the industry has spent countless hours of effort to get to a point we are currently. Going forward, technology that delivers on significant safety improvements will be the one to get priority above all other features.

2. **Design** - In a space constrained place such as Bangalore, it's imperative that the vehicle delivers smartly on how it utilizes urban space. This may not be of much difference in other larger cities, however a design that utilizes space effectively could be a boon for Bangalore

3. **Connect** - This space is already growing at an impressive pace. We see Machine-Vision and always connected vehicles coming at luxury end of the segment, however with Frugal innovation of players like Tata Motors, these will quickly make their way to entry models as an important feature. This will improve how a city uses it's resources smartly and is able to deliver better transportation.

As I mentioned earlier, no expertise. I just hope smarter electric cars will transform urban transportation in a short amount of time. The key elements are all there, electric, driverless, always connected.

Best, Umang


[Link1]:http://umangsaini.in
[Made of Great]:http://madeofgreat.tatamotors.com/
[Tata Motors]:http://www.tatamotors.com/
