---
layout: post
title: Zen
description: Post on Asus' Zen Phones Product
category: null
tags: 
  - Miscellaneous
published: true
---

{% include JB/setup %}

## Zen

I bought my first phone around 10 years back, and used it for almost 8 years. It was LG RD330 candy-bar phone. It had decent battery life (2days+), and decent call quality. I had to part ways with it when it's buttons stopped working. At the time in 2011, I wasn't ready to buy any of the smartphones in the market, and hence I used a Nokia for about a year, till I bought my current phone, Nexus-4, which I also use for development.

Now that almost everyone in my family has started to use a smartphone, I make a note of new products which are introduced in the Indian market. For some it's battery life, for some it's sleek design etc. And I must say that recent slew of products have some compelling use cases for everybody. I am usually looking for a phone, either for some friend, colleague or a family member. And my most recent purchase was [Asus Zenfone 5](http://www.flipkart.com/asus), (Red). Here's one of their recent promotion video - 

<div align="center">
<iframe width="640" height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/x8ZdiCDIOqQ" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

Asus wants me to tell you why Zenfone can be one's Valentine. It's a tricky, as it may offend your actual human-valentine. However, there's nothing preventing one to have more than one. Here are my five reasons for Zenfone to be my Valentine this year


1. **Loyalty** - I actually bought the phone for it's distinctive design which stands out from the usual crop of almost similar looking devices. I like the metallic look in the front bottom, which gives the phone it's distinctive stand out 
2. **Lasts Longer** - The phone is not very demanding. The battery life is good, so one need not charge it more than once a  day. My Nexus-4 needs charging more than twice a day which is painful.
3. **It comes in Red** - That's the color I bought. When it comes to smartphone devices, almost are standard black or the opposite white. People color their device using a case, however I always like to use the phone without an additional case. This makes it relatively important to have either color cases or default case to come with color options. Color adds to the personality of the device, and that's a consideration for picking your valentine.
4. **What's in a name?** - A lot it seems. Zenfone, the naming has stuck a chord with smartphone customers, and in today's day and age your phone needs to have a good name to make it easier for one to describe. While one doesn't want another generic device, a popular name helps in making the device memorable. Zenfone has been one such memorable name in 2014 and I hope it continues to win more customers going into 2015.
5. **Light on Pocket** - Come what may, at the end of the day one has to keep stuff within prudent budget. With Asus Zenfone you don't really have to think too hard on that front. The phones are priced competitively and offer tremendous value for money. 

Happy Valentines to everyone. Every year is different. Make the most of it.

Best, Umang


