---
layout: post
title: Happy
description: Post on stuff that makes one happy
category: null
tags: 
  - Miscellaneous
published: true
---

{% include JB/setup %}

## Happy

Happiness is a state of mind, or is it? Its just one of the states we travel through at different times of day, weeks and years. It's transient. It's fleeting. The tighter you want to hold on to happiness, the more easily it can slip out of your hands. [Coke India](http://cokeurl.com/96jnc) are celebrating International day of happiness on March 20th with a new marketing campaign.

<iframe width="640" height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/aQ3uhnByS1k" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>


That brings me to the focus of this post. What makes you happy?

I am firmly into my thirties now. Having been on this earth for over three decades, I have had a long time to figure out stuff that makes me happy. Lets list them 

##Communication
Interacting and talking to friends, family, colleagues and almost anyone. Communication brings connection, and connection brings joy. These days its led by 'WhatsApp' and 'Viber' which bring free communication tools to our fingertips. They have evolved communication for today's day and age and continue to make it simpler and measurable. Communication is as important as ever, and more so for happiness of everyone involved.

##Serendipity
There's joy in the unknown and surprises. However it's getting harder and harder for serendipity to happen. The conditions by very definition cannot be curated or designed for. They happen. One may not be able to fix a date and time for them, however when it happens, it often brings joy along. Its about not being in control of your surroundings. It's about allowing oneself to come face to face with serendipity. We might be drowning in the age of over-communication and mass-media, however I feel we have less serendipity today than even a few years ago. And since it's something you cannot control, you don't really have much choice about it, rather than just enjoy the moments that come your way.

##Food
Do we live to eat, or eat to live?
That's the clichéd question which is more annoying than anything. However we do spent a lot of time eating, cooking and working to put food on the table. Food brings joy to me in the same way it makes the world go around. It's a big part of everyday life and making it enjoyable goes a long way in enhancing one's happiness. We spend an inordinate time on it, and it makes sense to pay more attention to it than it typically gets. I miss the times when we would just eat food, and not multi-task or having a TV blast out mass-media entertainment at us. Simpler times are however past their point of return. Even though it's harder to pay attention, when one does pay it, it returns back in form of happiness and joy. Try that. Paying attention to food.

Well those are just three of many things which bring day-to-day joy into one's lives. Hope you had a good time on International day of happiness. 

Enjoy, Umang