---
layout: post
title: Ritual
description: Post on Living Carefree with insurance
category: null
tags: 
  - Miscellaneous
published: true
---

{% include JB/setup %}

## Ritual


I have never been completely comfortable around new-born's. This was up till my niece came to this world, and my comfort levels improved. Through the years, I've discovered that apart from mother it's really difficult to establish good two-way communication with a new born. One needs to decipher their mood and needs from smallest of hints and their cryptic yet cute expressions. 

I've enjoyed spending time with my niece and every-time I visit their home or they are visiting, as we spend more time together, our bond strengthens. From the time I've observed my niece, I have learnt a few key things along the way. I've noted them below in no particular order

**Observe** - Kids grow really quickly and they are learning new things by observing their surroundings all the time. It's really important that one keeps in sync with the way they communicate. This is also important to ensure that they are comfortable. They may not follow the same behaviour pattern while communicating their message, so it helps if one is able to find the context and take appropriate action. It could be expressing hunger, discomfort or pain. Once one is familiar with the subtle nuances of a newborns behavior, one is able to keep them happy.

**Comfort** - During the first few years, kids have one common minimum routine - Eat, Sleep and Poop - Repeat. Typical newborns sleep anywhere between 14 to 18 hours a day. It is important to ensure that kids are taken care across their routine. It's important to have a comfortable set of diaper's. You can find more details on this [Pampers](http://www.rewardme.in/tag/Pampers) site. Other items to keep in mind is their skin care, diet and a healthy environment for the baby to feel safe.

<div align="center">
<iframe width="640" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/HTlVOdovIZ8" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

<br>

**Bedtime Routine** - It's not necessary that kids are ready to sleep at your bedtime, however if one creates a good routine near bedtime, it gives sufficient cue to the child to fall asleep. I don't have one favourite one, however here's a list of ones I found to come in handy -


1. **Hair Massage** - Kids love to be pampered - A gentle head massage is always soothing and calms the child to fall asleep quickly.
2. **Picture Book** - Although kids like to fiddle with toys and picture books through the day as well, one can set aside few minutes at bed time to go through them in a fun way until the toddlers fall asleep. 
3. **Lullaby** - At the onset I'll say that I haven't ventured to sing a Lullaby to any kid, however I have observed the power of a good melody has on kids. It captures their attention and creates a sense of calm to create a resting and comfortable environment. Do dim the lights to add to the cues for the child to go fall asleep rather than stay active and keep you also up with them.

At the end of the day it's about making that connection with the toddler and every moment one spends with them is precious. 

Well those are just few experiences I've shared with my niece, and hopefully I am better prepared to take care or little one's in the future. Happy memories and happy parenting.

Best, Umang


