---
layout: post
title: Carefree
description: Post on Living Carefree with insurance
category: null
tags: 
  - Miscellaneous
published: true
---

{% include JB/setup %}

## Carefree

I've always believed that insurance sets you free in a way. It gives you a kind of peace of mind, to know that sudden end of life or a onset of a critical illness won't damage your family financially. This peace of mind enables one to be more productive and focus on improving one's life and the lives of those around us. This doesn't mean that one becomes careless and takes risks on ones life and health, however one can be assured of a safety net to protect one's family in bad times. 


This brings me to the second half of this post. What kind of bucket-list (end of life) would one prepare if we have this peace of mind i.e. [#BefikarUmarBhar](http://bit.ly/BefikarUmarBhar).
Here are few items on my personal bucket list -

<div align="center">
<iframe width="640" height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/iCwysxW0-QI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

<br>


1. **Travel** - I hate short term travel, escaping for up to a week doesn't truly give one the time to explore a place in depth. Given a choice, and enough planning, I'd like to make my travels minimum 1 month to 3 months duration. This would ensure that I don't look for short hotel stays and only see tourist hot-spots, but the ability to soak in the place's true essence and what the place has to offer. Although I haven't been able to give this method a go, and it would be much more complex to plan a month long vacation to a place, but it should be significantly more rewarding that a two to three day trip.
2. **Teach** - A lifetime of learning is a ripe time to give it back. Teaching is not for everyone, however it's something that goes a long way in training the next generation find it's place in the world. I have not thought about what I'd teach and what forum I may chose, however there's that innate desire to teach.
3. **Read** - No matter what I plan, and how I schedule my time, I always miss out on pure reading. To the degree, that I have taken a resolution to read a book every week for last 4 years straight and have never been able to fulfill that resolution. I am sure, given less stress in day to day life, I'd be able to manage more time for reading more books.
4. **Shoot** - There's a photographer in all of us. However as with the above items, lack of time and day-to-day stress pulls one away from giving enough time to one's hobbies. Photography has been my biggest hobby for last 10 years, however I haven't been able to pursue it more formally and dedicate more effort and resources to it. I would definitely want to make more time and space for photography in my life and see where it takes me. 
5. **Give** - What's happiness, if it's not shared with those less fortunate or those close to your heart. The more one is able to give, the more it strengthens ones resolute desire to keep giving more and more. I am not just limiting it to philanthropy in monetary terms, but also in terms of time, consultation etc. There's no dearth of avenues to give back to society.

Well those are just the five big items that came to my mind. Share your's in comments below.

Best, Umang


