---
layout: post
title: Pimple
description: Post on Facial Issues
category: null
tags: 
  - Miscellaneous
published: true
---

{% include JB/setup %}

## Pimple
<p>
Out of all parts of our body, we have a special place for our face. One tends to take special care of one's face as it's the most defining and recognizable part of us. It helps us communicate and its something we associate with all profiles/accounts we make, like Facebook/Twitter etc. 
</p>
<p>
While we take special care of our faces, we run into many common problems. There are many like oily patches, rashes, bruises etc., however one particular nasty one is a quite simply a Pimple.
</p>
<p>
A pimple is simply a small hard inflamed spot on the skin, typically appearing on our face. It can last from few days to few weeks, and if it is not carefully dealt with, it may leave a semi-permanent scar as a reminder for many weeks.
</p>
<p>
There are many strategies to minimize impact and occurrence of pimples on skin. Best strategy I know of is to keep your face clean. Wash it regularly with mild soap or other skin care products and one is less likely to get pimples. There's a ongoing campaign by Garnier on the same which has tons of information. Here's a link to their [face wash](http://bit.ly/GPABlogLinkIndiBloggerActivity) and one of their [information site](http://bit.ly/GarnierPureActiveNeemWebsite) on pimples.
</p>
<p>
I have been relatively fortunate to not have to face any severe outbreak of pimples, however the one's I do get become quite nasty as I tend to poke them and turn them into longer lasting scars. I haven't found any sure shot way of preventing myself from doing that.
</p>

Here are some of my top go to thumb rules for facial care
<ol>
<li>Regularly wash face. </li>
<li>Apply sun-tan cream before heading out in the sun. Wearing a cap also helps. It keeps hair also clean from dust and harsh sun.
<li>Try not to poke a pimple. Let it run its course, dry out and wither. Any tampering leads to marks</li>
<li>If you shave, then moisten the beard sufficient and use good razor to shave. Old razor used on dry face will be painful and also damage the skin</li>
<li>Drink water regularly to stay hydrated</li>
<li>Dont eat too much spicy food, as it has a negative impact on skin</li>
<li>Exercise regularly, a fit body will lead to healthier body, mind and healthy skin. One doesn't necessarily need any particular reason to exercise regularly, however a glowing skin is a positive side-effect of working out regularly.</li>
</ol>
<br>
<p>
Stay healthy, stay focused. Take care. Until next time.
<br>
Best, Umang
</p>