---
published: false 
layout: post
description: "Cherry picking in Media"
category: null
tags: 
  - India
---
{% include JB/setup %}
<p></p>

It is quite fashionable in politics to issue statements. However, political statements must be consumed with a pinch of salt. They are written by an army of shadow professional writers, and are designed specifically for political goals.

Thus its best to ignore what is said in interviews and instead rely on good old fashioned reporting. Reporting which is grounded by the [principles of journalism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Journalism_ethics_and_standards). But alas, such good reporting keeps shrinking, as media business' tend to prioritize revenue. There are a new breed of trigger-happy publications who evaluate the report after it is published. This creates a condition where absurd allegations fly across the sky at an incredible rate, without a shred of accountability.

There is a method to this kind of reporting. It is called cherry-picking. Citizens who stuck in their echo chambers and unwilling to step outside cannot see the fallacy hiding in plainsight.

There is a recent spike in articles comparing current government with previous regime. As the method of cherry picking goes, one can easily present the data with any pre determined conclusion. What these articles don't do conveniently is present the full picture. They are designed for one thing - 
>"We're building a dystopia just to make people click on ads" - Zeynep Tufekci.

Such thinly veiled opinion pieces masquerading as reportage don't add value to the public debate. They end up stoking partisan outcomes and miss the forest for the trees. Mountains are made up of proverbial molehills, and end outcome is lose-lose.


Best, Umang
