---
layout: post
title: "Rhetoric"
description: "Interview"
category: null
tags: 
  - India
published: false
---
 
{% include JB/setup %}

<p>
It seems it is not possible for career journalists to ask tough questions to Indian Politicians. I am jotting down few questions.</p>

Dear Namo,

1. List 3 anti-corruption measures taken by NDA-I/II
2. Aadhaar, what went wrong? Given the recent failure of PDS in UP ([TOI: Aadhaar data 'edited' to pilfer public distribution system ration in UP](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/lucknow/aadhaar-data-edited-to-pilfer-public-distribution-system-ration-in-up/articleshow/65547049.cms))
3. Accountability - Same question
4. Farm Loan waiver - Rajan said no-no
5. Dangers to democracy
6. Women's Reservation bill - Either pass it, or kill it. 
7. Rafale - Should price be renegotiated after Qatar/Egypt bought the item for a cheaper price. Would it be better to scrap the deal altogether (policy-paralysis)
8. Statues - No net benefit
9. Bullet Train - When it has comprehensively failed in China, can India replicate Japan's success here. What is stopping from starting work on the second route, as the first one seems to be stuck?
10. Demo - What did GOI do to prepare people without access to digital currency. Cash hoarding took place instantaneously. Why was Demo not canceled, as within few hours of its announcement it was clear that it was a huge failure.
11. GST - Given a chance will single rate be rolled out? What is timebound commitment on this?

Dear Raga,

1. List 3-Anti corruption measures taken by UPA.
2. What was the reason to not join UPA government?
3. Aadhaar, what went wrong? Rajiv Gandhi had said - 'Only 15 paise reaches the needy'. UPA introduced Aadhaar as a potential solution, however it has huge privacy issues and loopholes ensure that leakages continue to exist. 
4. Accountability - What needs to be done to bring back economic offenders? 
5. Farm loan waivers - Raghuram Rajan said they don't work, actually harm credit access to farm sector and are an overall fiscal disaster. Do you agree, and commit to not allow any loan waivers in the future.
6. What are the dangers Indian democracy is facing? (Convicts reaching the parliament, poor women representation, freedom of press etc.)
7. Triple Talaq - Should the new law be passed
8. Rafale - Role of French Dassault, Macron and Hollande
9. Bullet Train - Will it be scrapped, as no damage has been done. 
10. Demo - What did INC do to help citizens during this emergency? How much cash INC keeps, and amount of cash donations it accepts.
11. GST

Best, Umang
