---
layout: post
title: "Fallacy"
description: "Exact Opposite"
category: null
tags: 
- Principles
- Opinion
published: true
---
 
Each day is unique, and guaranteed to never return. 

In the category of overused words, I have often run into the title of this post. A simple define:fallacy search yields the following :

> noun: a mistaken belief, especially one based on unsound arguments.

While the word represents a specific approach to a debate, it has its own limitations. The term is not very well understood, and its Hindi transalation "तर्कदोष" doesn't help either.

I wanted to present another hypothesis, which I believe has stronger legs for winning an argument, even when it cuts both ways. I have published an ad-infinitum quotable quote on this website in the past, which probably did not find much traction ([Truth](https://umangsaini.cricket/2006/09/absolute-truth_27/)). Here we go again, at attempt #2

> Whatver is your strongest conviction, your version of absolute truth, there is a good chance that the exact opposite of the same is also true. 
<p align="right">
-Umang Saini 
 </p>
 
I agree that the idea is a hard sell, and probably not the right choice of words to describe it. But deep-down, when you measure your version of truth, your set of beliefs and strongest convictions, it is worth inverting the same, and measure if that version could also represent truth.
 
That is enough hypothesizing for a single post. The formal work to prove the same is simultaneously extremely hard and easy. 
 
Best, Umang

Disclaimer: No claim for this to be an original or an irreducible tenet/axiom/principle.


