---
layout: post
title: "Genetic"
description: "Natural Selection"
category: null
tags: 
- Principles
- Self
published: false 
---
 
A consequential decision in one's life is the selection of a life-partner. Nothing prepares one to make this decision, and mechanisms society has established are sub-optimal as well.

It is primarily an information game, and both sides have an interest in hiding the ugly parts. 

In an ideal world, love-marriage should work for everyone, and it is by-far the most preferred way to make the decision. However, many of us chicken out of this, and fall-back to the "arranged" method where family or friends bring prospects, and some sort of selection process takes place across several months and sometimes years. For me this process lasted for around eighteen months, where first twelve months were pretty much a waste.

There are several other aspects to this selection process which need reform. At the end of the day, the bride and the groom need to align on which if these aspects they can ignore, and where they need to put their foot down. Some aspects like color of the skin, net-worth (assets), joint-family etc. influence the selection process. I can say this categorically that none of these "societal" factors have any merit whatsoever. In fact, in many cases the exact opposite of is likely a better choice.

This brings us to something called bio-data, it is the information one is discloses to a prospective match. It is by all means a confidential document, which is shared only with trusted parties.

So how should one conduct the search?

Sadly there is no right answer. If we look at the data, majority of couples these days meet online. So internet apparently is the place where you are likely to find some answer. I have few suggestions which may or may not help

1. Parents are an indicator of how a person will age. We may not like the genetic-determinism aspect of this, however it is a great indicator. So the wisdom that you marry the family, is largely true. (However siblings are not a great indicator)
2. [Equality](https://umangsaini.site/2021/09/marriage/) matters. The principle of equality is important. Choose a partner who is your equal, as an asymetrical marriage in unlikely to work.  
3. You can trust the judgement of your parents, so if they veto someone, it is unwise to go against it, unless you can truly convince them. Going against the judgement of parents is rarest of rare situations, although Bollywood would like to portray it differently.
4. 


Best, Umang
